[Music]
all right so we are in the PC bond right
now do you find yourself in here often
do you play games in here yeah
especially when I was a new writer I was
in here pretty much every night getting
drunk and hopefully not too many drunk a
Rams in here because I I'm sitting down
with Andrea seven seas I do all right
yeah okay I did it right okay last name
is interesting what do you do at riot
I'm a researcher here riot I trying to
do a lot of market research so that
means researching giant populations of
players sometimes entire countries of
gamers I tend to do a lot of research
around what people think of League of
Legends especially people who don't play
League of Legends
laughs players or new players or people
we want to come play the game and I also
do a lot of what I call cross-cultural
research which is trying to understand
how the gamers in the different markets
that we make games are different and how
we can start their needs differently so
this is not like you're you're less of a
researcher who's like looking at the way
people are playing in game like you're
not looking at Lisa and win rates or
something so what is an example like can
you give me a more concrete example of
something that you've worked on that
maybe fans would understand yeah well I
can give you an example and then I can
also talk about some things I've
actually done here but you know say
write was gonna make a dating simulator
dream daddy - there's something like
that very excited okay hey how many what
is the market size for dating seniors
how many players are there who that
exist in the regions that we might
release a game in that want to play this
thing you know what we would have to
tell them about that game to get them to
actually be interested in and what would
the game have to be to actually be a
thing that would want to play yeah so
those tend to be the types of questions
I answer for a long time I answer those
types of questions for league I was
trying to figure out you know in regions
where our growth is kind of plateauing
right we're not really getting giant
amounts of new people trying league
everyday anymore I mean enough like
we're still in like a really giant
healthy state but it's not the way it
was four years ago sure you know it's
like hey what is holding them back you
know what would they need to hear about
League to want to come play it so a lot
of our marketing stuff that we're doing
this year stuff that I've worked on the
new player experience changes that we're
making with a new tutorial or also the
kinds of things that I've worked on for
those things yeah I saw there was a I
think one of the things that people have
seen recently is like the ads that came
out where it's like players trying
different weapons and stuff like that
for trying to figure out what their role
is so
to see that stuff yeah that came
directly from players right you know
before we sit down to make an
advertisement like we don't just go what
do we think is the most compelling thing
about League of Legends right like it
doesn't necessarily matter what we think
though it betters a little bit you know
we actually go out and we talk to
teenage gamers for that project in
particular we talk to teenage gamers all
over the world actually and we found out
what they thought about League you know
what they knew about it before we expose
anything to them about it and we kind of
like pitched some different things at
them or like hey so this game has all of
these things what are these things
appeal to you and you know ultimately
after going through a giant creative
process it gets translated that finding
that inside gets translated into an
advertisement like that so is the idea
that people like the different roles
that you can switch you can be an archer
you can be as sort of the concept of
being all these different things yeah
and you know obviously there are many
other compelling things about league
that a as messages have captured for us
a lot of our players you know the
competitive scene eSports all that kind
of stuff or things that have pulled in a
lot of people we have now but you know I
think when we look at the product we see
yeah the people who are gonna be gotten
by that message for League like they
know that we are that like you know
we've been around for really long time
we're pretty giant game gamers who'd
come in for that thing they're gonna
find us eventually you know there are
also a lot of other things League offers
like and we kind of wanted to do a
messaging campaign that sort of pushed
forward some of those other alternate
things that League is fun for so is this
a role that you've had like you know a
lot of people don't know that this type
of role exists in the video game
industry is this something you've done
at a lot of different video game
companies are like what's your
background yeah I never did this at a
video game company I actually had no
idea of video game companies did this
either I mean I've always been a super
hardcore gamer but growing up I never
thought I'd work in the industry because
I was like not a developer you know
never gonna be a programmer I'm not an
artist what the hell could I possibly do
to make a video game great you know and
then I went you know separately it
became really fascinated by how humans
perceive things and using scientific
measurements to understand how humans
think I did marketing research for a lot
of fortune 100 companies who obviously
spend giant amounts of money investing
in how to understand selling like how to
sell paper towels to people or whatever
I learned that craft and then finally
sit artistically and perfectly it was
like I could finally apply that craft to
a product that I actually really cared
about you know so it was kind of a
jumble how it ended up happening I've
never done this for another video game
company and many video game companies
actually don't have someone like me
because you have to be at a certain
scale at a company for it to be worth
invest
in the kind of research that I do right
like if you're just a tiny indie studio
or developer you don't need to know
exactly how many millions of core gamers
there are in China right that's like not
valuable for you
riot kind of conveniently now is at the
scale and starting to grow into a
company that eventually will have
multiple products and those kinds of
things so it was really nice like you
know I kind of came across riot right
when my skill set became relevant to
write it as a company so what yeah what
is your background like what so you
worked at fortune 500 companies but like
what what led you down this path doing
like research stuff yeah long weird
story I definitely did not grow up
thinking to be a business person I was
like a pongos TJ like I liked writing I
like music like I had no dreams ever of
entering like a corporate life but as I
got into high school in college I
realized that the thing I was most
fascinated by is like basically
sociology you know as I started to read
and learn more about how people have
analyzed human behavior in the aggregate
both historically and now and once I
kind of was exposed to that kind of
stuff I just I knew that that was
actually the thing that I wanted to do
with my life I was very passionate
politics at the time so I decided to
sort of apply that craft skillset to the
political world I went into politics
realized that it's super dirty and
nobody there is doing research to find
out what's happening everyone there is
doing research to try to like push
forward their own agenda or position so
I had the skillset but I didn't really
know what to do with it so I just kind
of kept bouncing around developing the
skillset hoping eventually I would find
a company or a product that I actually
wanted to apply those skills do and so
yeah but I was a mercenary like you know
I was aboard a mercury research firm any
1,400 company could hire us and asked us
to figure out why people aren't drinking
soda anymore or like any variety of
other questions you know how we should
price diesel in Croatia or like
questions like that
you know those topics they might not
seem super interesting but when you are
asked to ask questions like that across
a broad diversity of industries you
start to learn things about the world
you know and you start to learn how like
different industries pattern after each
other and you can see these giant like I
don't know how to describe them but
they're sort of almost you're learning
things about human how you met any moves
in the aggregate by seeing how different
people behave in different product
categories you know so that was cool but
now I like feel happy that I can just
hyper focus on one like really for the
past two and a half years right it has
empowered me to focus 1 billion percent
of my time on Under
how gamers move and why games are
successful and those kinds of things
which is like inherently fascinating to
me yeah I assume there is not too much
like it's it's interesting I know from
the eSports side that like brands and
companies a lot of people sort of write
off games because it's a relatively new
thing and so like a chief marketing
officer at some company is very familiar
with the idea of like advertising on
television or in traditional sports but
they don't understand that they're like
how big games are so it's kind of cool
to see you like I imagine you're doing a
lot of work that people let us somewhat
knew that people haven't done before
yeah that's awesome like you know if I
was doing research on makeup or
something like that there'd be 80 year
history of doing research on makeup
advertising makeup packaging makeup
distribution how people use it all that
kind of stuff you know but for games
it's like we are like the big baby right
like we just massively suddenly became a
giant entertainment industry a ton of
this stuff has never been done before
like a ton of the kind of questions that
like you know we get to answer every day
nobody knows nobody has ever researched
that thing before you know so it's kind
of like we're sort of at the forefront
of understanding gamers in a lot of ways
just because we're asking the kind of
questions no one's asked what so how did
you make the jump from politics which
you found a little you were a little
gene how did you go from that to doing
research on how to price diesel and
Croatia to Riot Games like was it just
you were looking for a job and you
landed here or what happened it actually
is a kind of funny story so one of my
friends at the market research firm I
was working at Kimberley was looking for
a new job she'd become unhappy and she
was working with the recruiter and she
watched in her office one day and she
was like man this recruiter through this
crazy job at me but honestly when she
described it to me I thought of you she
said the job is that you have to argue
with highly highly opinionated nerds for
like the voice of the player like you
know and that was basically how she
articulated that was how the recruiter
had articulated the job to her and I was
like I just listen to her I was like oh
my god I was born for this like
seriously you know because I think it
can be hard like sometimes when you're
talking about insights right you can
talk about data but when you're talking
to someone who has a deeply developed
intuitive opinion or understanding of
someone like a
right someone who they have their own
knowledge right and they might look at
data but like their intuition often is
gonna be just as strong or just as
powerful as anything you talk about
girls crawler yeah exactly you have to
be credible like you know you have to be
when you're trying to convince them hey
this data means you should do X or Y
thing it's very hard to do that if
you're not a gamer right like especially
at riot where being a gamer and like
caring about our players is kind of the
the credibility floor through which we
can all work with each other so I kind
of knew that like if they came here you
know it would I would actually I thought
I could actually be successful at that
job right because I am incredibly
passionate about games have been a
hardcore PC gamer my entire life but I
also you know can be relatively
objective about my own opinion and let
go assess data and kind of be like hey
maybe I think this would be cool but
like it really really looks like from
all of this stuff that actually what we
should do for the players you know is
this so navigating that line basically
is the art in the craft of our job it's
part of it as being able to get the data
but a large part of it also is being
able to know when you should privilege
intuition know when you should privilege
what your designers know or what your
leaders know versus like what the data
is telling you you know one of that you
mentioned that you've been a hardcore
gamer for a long time i I've met a lot
of people who work on a design site or
on the art side and for them like they
were gamer and then they went to college
and they were just trying to figure out
how to get to turn that until like a
gaming job then they went straight in
what what was it like for you're a
hardcore gamer but you're doing you know
political science stuff you're doing
stuff and for market research like what
was that like you know I guess you were
doing all this in your off hours yeah no
I stayed away forever you know and it
was weird cuz yes I am like a late entry
you know I started working the industry
when I was 28 a lot of the folks that I
know here you know they started working
in the industry right off like you're
saying that was like I was their dream
and they went in a lot of ways coming to
riot and finally you know I was always
like a closeted gamer not that I was
ashamed of it or anything like that but
I was operating in circles and spheres
in which most of the people around me
weren't gamers like it was my private
passion you know it was kind of like my
secret thing that I did just for me you
know coming to riot was really cool
because I felt like coming home like I
finally felt like I was with my people
you know one of the most special things
about being here is that we truly are
very culturally United like we just have
this thing in common like we all love
the same thing that most you know that
just makes making friends here and
and they're kind of like it's just so
socially wonderful to be here because
everybody has that thing in common I've
never experienced anything like that
before coming to work here before you
came to write like what were some of the
big games that you you played and
enjoyed yes so I'm kind of weird I'm
definitely not your typical like lull
player in terms of my play style I
pretty much exclusively play three kinds
of games like deep story driven
narrative like you know kind of like
single player action-adventure RPGs so
the first game I ever fell in love with
this baldur's gate you know and
basically everything that's like bad
that's ever come out since then I've
been like a hardcore fangirl of so
obviously in today's there is like Mass
Effect and like Dragon Age and things
like that I love and then I also believe
up for X Games so I just have
consistently played you know whatever 4x
game is a duration of my franchises are
out at the time so like you know right
now I'm playing a lot of like sub 6 and
Solaris and stuff like that and then I
also play on the most it was kind of sad
for me to see I'm in those kind of be
effing and then stop being a thing I am
like desperately hoping that it comes
back someday that's like my number one
dreams playing like wow or what yeah a
lot of wait I played about in beta
you know I've played it pretty much my
senior year of high school and some of
my freshman year of college and then I
was like a freshman in college and I was
like hey maybe you should be so I kind
of turned at that point but yeah pretty
much every major MMO that's come out and
tried to replace wow I've like gotten
into for a little bit while and then
watch it die and cry have you please
take what is it was interesting because
I also talked to you Ghostcrawler was
the like it's an interesting story he
had a PhD in marine biology he was doing
all this like research stuff like very
much in like the marine biology
scientist world then hands up in games
similarly like you I think a lot of
people feel like they like games but it
might be too late in their career for
them to switch into this industry right
like that you you this is something you
do fresh out of college if you are five
or six or seven years into a career that
feels completely different from games
like how can you ever make that jump but
you you found a way to do that yeah you
can do it I mean I will say insights is
a incredibly scalable cells good right
like pretty much every company of any
size or skill needs people who can do
the kinds of things that I can do at a
certain point so that might be uniquely
lucky in that way but I would say also
that like you know games are business
right
games are big business so like if you
have a job if you have a skill set tips
are pretty good that there's some way
that a gaming company might want to use
that thing you know when you think about
it the industry is constantly changing
like you know eSports like journalists
or you know like shoutcasters that job
category didn't really exist ten years
ago but it definitely exists now you
know so I do think that if you want to
work in games and you're like coming
into it late like just do it you know
I've never been happier than like
finally being able to be here and I'm
super glad I did that you know yeah what
is a moment of success look like for you
like what whenever you feel maybe while
you're at riot or just sort of
conceptually broadly like whenever you
felt like you've you've done something
where you feel like you've achieved
something or it's been a successful
moment for you yeah I mean really
successful moments for me I would say
the happiest time ever right for me was
I was working one of our titles and
development you know and it was in a
genre that I didn't know very well like
you know one that I didn't personally
play and I was feeling really insecure
about it because I was like Here I am
coming into a game and development with
people who have devoted their entire
lives to understand this problem space
and it's like yes I've always known
about that kind of game right but like I
don't understand it deeply the way a
player and enthusiast does and you know
even if you have this skill set and you
know that you don't have to be a person
to understand to them that's the whole
craft of social sciences not needing
that you know I was like really dubious
about my own ability to like deeply as
people to understand the space as my
people did and so I was very lucky right
it allowed me to go travel around the
world for about two months like just
like deeply is speaking to players
around and in this genre like just
trying to understand them as deeply as I
possibly could in all of these different
regions and I came back and I kind of
like delivered my findings to the team
and they're like a they said that it
caused him to think about the space in a
way that they had never thought about it
before and that's what really deep
questions about things that they they
kind of hadn't been thinking about when
they were thinking about the game and
and that's what feels like success to me
is it's never getting someone to do
something it's more like empowering our
incredibly incredibly smart people to be
even smarter about the audience like one
when they're telling me that I helped
them understand something in a new way
that is absolutely the most successful
moment for me because we have great
people like their default intuition is
good in order to add alpha with more
information like you have to be pretty
good at figuring out what that alpha
could even be and then like going and
getting it you know I mean most of our
defaults are like generally pretty good
so to get a
that you need to deliver something
excellent so anyway that felt very good
to me when that worked out okay so
conversely have you I assume that a lot
of your research might discover
inefficiencies in this company right
like moments where maybe Wright is doing
something wrong and everything looks
like there it's successful and you have
to kind of convince people like no no
this way that we've been doing something
for all these years is very wrong yeah
definitely does happen sometimes and I
will say often those will be my greatest
successes as well right you know because
it's like I believe in this place I want
us to be successful when we can point
out a thing that we should have been
doing or a thing we didn't know or a
thing we were wrong about like that
makes us stronger that makes us better
so in a lot of ways you know even though
those might be uncomfortable
conversations sometimes they can be some
of the most empowering moments for other
rioters too because they're like God all
along I assumed this was fun but now I
actually know so I know that I can go
fix it you know sometimes showing people
like what the problem is empowers them
and inspires them to actually go do
something about it you know so those are
hard but I would say my least happy
moments here are the times when we like
just fail to get our together and
do something you know because usually
rioters are all very culturally aligned
with each other on what we are trying to
do we're trying to make awesome things
for gamers there's like never a roomful
of rioters in which everybody is not
hyper focused on that goal you know
despite that though we're still
corporation we're still humans like you
know and there are some times when all
of the conditions are in place we have
the right talent we have the right
people we have the right motivation and
like we still can't get stuff done
that's what hurts me because I guess in
a lot of ways I and probably many other
rioters idealize riot and like you know
when we sort of see that happen we're
like oh wait we're business we're like
subject to all the same political
that all of the businesses are
like you know I can't accept that you
know so those tend to be my least happy
moments but those exist at every job
like you know this is still a company
it's not heaven yeah what is really
interesting is you are taking kind of
like these human moments these humans
human desires like the things that
humans are passionate about and you're
turning them into data and I'm very
curious if there's been a moment where
you have seen the reverse where you've
used the the data that you've gathered
and you've seen sort of the results hit
back on like the human side right where
maybe you see I don't
know what that would be but I'm kind of
curious like have you had sort of that
reflection back yeah no that's a really
great question and honestly like when
you're a mercenary market researcher
like right you're just you're hired by
various companies to do various things
you never get that feedback loop your
report on diesel pricing for blank and
blank goes into some drawer somewhere
you imagine that's what they press DS
lives in Croatia but you have no idea
and like you never know if you were
right or not if we got that feedback
here at right you actually do get to do
that you know so there have definitely
been some times with League you know so
for example this marketing campaign we
just talked about where it's like you
know once that thing went live like I
actually went to YouTube comments and I
was like watching the players being
exposed to like an introduction of
League of Legends in that way for the
first time like actually respond to the
things that we had discovered would make
them respond and make them interested
and I was like oh my god like actually
that was a compelling message sweet it
worked you know so that is something
that you only really get to do if you're
like a business strategist at a company
as opposed to being at one at like a
firm you know and it's one of the best
things about being an internal person
like that is there anything you would
say for the people who are interested in
getting a job in the gaming world and
sort of with especially like looking at
sort of the areas that you're in which
is more a marketing business I don't
even know how to directly categorize
broker people that are thinking like I
want to work at a game company but again
I can't do like art or design or
whatever sort of the thought process you
had yeah my thought process was
basically like okay well what could I do
I can understand how humans think and
what they think and like how to measure
that in a way that isn't just gross
noise you know like that is a skill that
you can develop I would say that if you
want to do this particular thing if you
want to like study human behavior
whatever tools or skill sets right
whether that's data science or you know
like a behavioral analysis or the kinds
of things I do like primary research you
know one of the only things that
American undergraduate education is
actually well suited to teaching you how
to do as a job is that thing you know
sue if you study psyche if you study
stats like you know you can build
yourself into the kind of person who's
able to do these things independently
the one thing I would just recommend as
much as possible is like learn your
craft holistically you know is very I
would say the people who are best in
this field are rarely the people who
come into it from a technical skill
they're rarely the people who are like
only super good at math and then I'm
gonna be super good at math and use math
for social science right it's usually
people who come into it
like having a sort of deep need to try
to understand humanities and humans and
then they're like alright what tools do
I need like I often find that those
people are the ones who are best cuz
ultimately like you know any one
methodology is incredibly limited and
teaching you what's going on in the
world like in order to actually get
close to truth which we never do but we
try and try and try constantly to get
closer to truth the more methods you can
mix the more powerfully there be
anything finally anything you would say
to anybody who is you know sort of on
the outside they might have their ideas
about what it's like working at riot or
what Reich aims is like as a company but
you you know they can only sort of see
what it's like from beyond the fence
right for you anything that you would
sort of say to those that are interested
right as a company yeah I mean I guess I
would say uh that riot is incredibly
unique because we are we all have a
couple of things in common right we also
we all are incredibly growth minded
which is like a corporate buzzword but
basically what it means is that like
people here and never like to settle
into a job like people you're always
looking to constantly grow and improve
themselves and that's a certain type of
personality trait right we tend to be
people who are challenging opinionated
ambitious like you know have strong
personality is there giant collection of
pretty strong personalities you know and
that's a particular kind of working
environment but I would also say the
second thing we have in common is the
thing that allows those strong
personalities to interact in a really
like healthfully collaborative way which
is that like we literally wake up every
day being like I am in service like you
know and having that kind of like Union
you know I think it is just an
incredibly special culture that is like
very unlikely to be found anywhere else
so yeah that is what it's like here you
know it can be stressful it can be
challenging we can disagree with each
other we all have very strong opinions
and care very very much you know so it's
like not a place you can kind of show up
passively right you have to show up here
but when you do like because we're all
united by our mission like we can
actually accomplish really great things
and like feel super good about what we
do so you know that is kind of how it
feels to be here I guess we're good
thank you so much Andreea for sitting
down with me today really appreciate it
yeah thank you
you